William Gibson: Johnny Mnemonic
Playback on full recall shows Ralfi stepping forward as the little tech comes out of nowhere,
smiling. Just a suggestion of a bow, and his left thumb falls of. It'a a dangerous trick. The
thumb hangs suspended. Mirrors? Wires? And Ralfi stops, his back to us, dark spots of
sweat under the fabric of his pale summer suit. He knows. He must have known. And then
the joke-shop hand, heavy as lead, goes out in a lighting yo-yo trick, and the invisible
thread connecting to the killer's hand passes vertically through Ralfi's skull, just above his
eyebrows, picks up, and descends, tracing the heart shaped torso roughly from shoulder to
rib cage. Cuts so fine that no blood flows until blades form and the first tears
surrender the body to gravity.
They tumbled apart in a pink cloud of fluids, the three inch section rolling down
the wet pavement. In total silence.
I brought the gym bag up, and my hand trembled. The blow nearly broke my wrist.
It must have been rain; ribbons of water tumbled from a huge hose and shattered
on the tile behind us. We crouched in the narrow gap between a surgical suite and an
antique shop. She'd just edged one mirrored eye around the corner to report a single power
module in front of the Drome, red lights flashing. They were sweeping Ralfi up. Asking
questions.
I was covered in some white flesh. The tennis socks. The gym bag was a ragged plastic
wrap around my wrist. 'I don't see how the hell I missed him.'
'Cause he's fast, so fast.' She hugged her knees and rocked back and forth on her heels.
'His nervous system's locked up. He's factory custom.' She grinned and gave a little sound of
delight. 'I'm goinna get that boy. Tonight. He's the best, number one, top dollar, state of the
art.'
'What you're going to get, for this boy's two million, is my ass out of here. Your boyfriend
back there was mostly grown in a farm in Chiba City. He's a master assassin.'
'Chiba. Yeah. See, Molly's been Chiba, too.' And she showed me her hands, fingers slightly
spread. Her fingers were slender, pale, very white against the polished bronze nails.
Ten blades poked straight out from their bases beneath her nails, each one a narrow,
curved blade in pale blue steel.
* * *
I'd never spent much time in Nighttown. Nobody there had anything to pay me to remember,
and most of them had a lot they paid regularly to forget. Generations of sharpsshooters had
clipped away at the neon until the maintenance crews gave up. Even at noon the stars were
coal-black against white pearl.
Where do you go when the world's greatest criminal order is feeling for you with calm,
distant fingers? Where do you hide from the sun, so powerful that it owns you and at
least three ships? The latter is a true multinational, like ITT and Ono-Sendai. Fifty years
before I was born the Mafia had already absorbed the Triads, the Mafia, the Union Corps.
They had an answer: You hide in the Pit, in the lowest circle, where any outside influence
generates swift, violent waves of raw fear. You hide in Nighttown. Better yet, you hide
above Nighttown, because the Pit's inverted, and the bottom of its bowl touches the sky, the
sky that Nighttown never sees, sweating under its own layer of black rain, up where
the Loos glow in the dark like corpses, black-market cigarettes dangling from their
lips.
She had another answer, too.
'So you're locked up good and tight, Johnny-san? No way to get that program without the
password?' She led me into the shadows that waited beyond the bright tube platform. The
concrete walls were covered with graffiti, years of them twisting into a single scream of
rage and frustration.
'The stored data are fed in through a modified series of internal control
systems.' I rattled off a numb version of my standard sales pitch. 'Client's code is stored in
a special chip; in Squids, which we in the trade don't like to talk about, there's no way to
recover your phrase. Can't drug it out, cut it out, torture it. I don't know it, never did.'
'Yes? Or things with arms?' We emerged into a deserted street market. Shadowy
figures watched us from across a makeshift square littered with fish heads and rotting fruit.
'Superconducting quantum matter theory. Used them in the war to find submarines,
seek out enemy radar systems.'
'Yeah? Navy stuff? From the war? Squid'll read that chip of yours?' She'd stopped walking,
and I felt her eyes on me behind those twin mirrors.
'Even the primitive models could measure a magnetic field a billionth the strength of
magnetic force; it's like pulling a whisper out of their stadium.'
'Cops can do that already, with portable mirrors and cameras.'
'But your data's still secure.' Pride in profession. 'No government'll let their cops have Squids,
not even the security services. Too much chance of interdepartmental conflict; they're too
likely to hurt you.'
'Navy stuff,' she said, and her grin faded in the shadows. 'Navy stuff. I got a friend down
here who was in the navy, name's John. I think you'd better meet him. He's a jerk, though.
So we'll have to take him something.'
'A turtle?'
'A cop.'
He was more than a dog, but from another woman's point of view he might have seemed
like something less. I watched him swirling slowly in his water tank. Water stopped
over the side, soaking my shoes. He was surplus from the last war. A book.
He rose out of the water, showing us the steel plates along his sides, a kind of visual blur,
his grace nearly lost under articulated armor, clumsy and prehistoric. Twin holes on
either side of his skull had been engineered to house sensor units. Silver lesions appeared on
exposed sections of his gray-white hide.
He smiled. Jones raised his tail, and more water splashed down the side of the tank.
'What is this place?' I peered at vague shapes in the dark, wearing chain link and things under
them. Above the tank hung a clumsy wooden framework, crossed and surrounded by rows of
dusty white lights.
'Yeah. Zoo and carnival rides. "talk with the War Whale." All that. Some whale Jones is...'
He reared again and fixed me with a sad and ancient eye.
'How's he talk?' Suddenly I was anxious to go.
'That's the catch. Say "Hi," too.'
And all the lamps lit simultaneously. They were flashing red, white, and blue.
'
'
'
'
:
'Good with symbols, see, but the code'wt. In the navy they had him wired into an
audio display.' She drew the narrow package from a jacket pocket. 'Pure shit, Jones.
Want it?' He froze in the water and started to sink. I felt a strange panic, remembering that he
wasn't a fish that he could drown. 'We want the key to Johnny's bank, Jones. We want it fast.'
The lights flickered, died. 'Go for it, Jones!'
B
B
B
B
B
'So we got a deal or not?'
'Deal,' he said starting at his ruined face with what he must have hoped was only polite
interest. 'Deal.' While I checked the two records we'd bought she extracted the slip of paper
I'd given her from the inner wrist pocket of her jacket. She unfolded it and read carefully,
moving her lips. She shrugged. 'This is it?'
'Shoot,' I said, punching the RECORD out of the two doors simultaneously.
'Christian White,' she recited, 'and his Aryan Reggae Band.' Fairtful Ralfi, a fan to his dying
day.
Transition to idiot-man mode is always less abrupt than I except it to be. The pirate
broadcaster's front was a failing travel agency in a large cube that boasted a desk, three
chairs, and a faded poster of a lost orbital spa. A pair of toy birds with blown-glass bodies
and tin legs were swinging monotonously from a crystal cup of water on the ledge beside
Roland's shoulder. As I phased into mode, they accelerated gradually until their DayGlo-
shaped colors became solid bars of color. The dots that told seconds on the plastic wall
clock had become little pulsings, and Molly and the rat-faced boy grew pale,
their arms touching occasionally in insect-quick ghosts of gesture. And then it all faded to cool
gray static and an endless tone poem in the artificial language.
I sat and sang dead Ralfi's stolen program for three hours.
The mall runs forty kilometers from end, a ragged overlap of Fuller Road in what was
once a suburban artery. If they turn off the TV on a clean day. a gray approximation of
sunlight filters through layers of clouds, a view like the prison sketches of Giovanni Piranesi.
The three southernmost kilometers roof Nighttown. Nobody pays no taxes, no utilities. The
neon lamps are dead, and the poles have been smoked black by decades of cooking fires.
In the nearly total darkness of a Nighttown noon, who notices a few dozen mad children lost
in the darkness?
We'd been climbing for two hours, up concrete stairs and steel doors with broken ends,
past abandoned cars and dust-covered tools. We'd started in what looked like a huge
maintenance yard, stacked with metal wing segments. Everything there had been
covered with that same uniform layer of random graffiti: gang names, dates back to the
turn of the century. The graffiti followed us up, gradually widening until a single name was
repeated at intervals. LO TEK. In dripping black capitals.
'Who's Lo Tek?'
'Not us, boss.' She climbed a shivering aluminium ladder and vanished through a hole in a
sheet of red plastic. '"Low technique, low technology."' The plastic muffled her voice. I
followed her up, nursing an aching wrist. 'Lo Teks, they'd think that shotgun trick of yours was
funny.'
An hour later I dragged myself up through another hole, this one set open in a
thin sheet of wood, and met my first Log.
'S okay,' Mom said, her hand brushing my shoulder. 'It's just Dog. Hey, Dog.'
In the narrow beam of her taped flash, he regarded us with his one eye and slowly extended a
thick length of his tongue, licking huge fangs. I wondered how they wrote off tooth-gum
nuts from humans as low technology. Immunosuppressives don't exactly grow on
trees.
'No.' Dental conditions in his speech. A string of hair dripped from the twisted
lower lip. 'Heard ya comin'. Long time.' He might have been fifteen, but the fangs and the
bright mosaic of scars combined with the gaping socket to present a mask of total insanity. It
had taken time and a certain kind of beauty to assemble that face, and his posture told-me
he enjoyed living behind it. He wore a pair of dark jeans, black with blue and shiny
along the edges. His chest and feet heaved. He did something with his mouth that
formed a grin. 'Bein' followed, you.'
Far off, in Nighttown, a water vendor cried his trade.
'Strings jumping, Dog?' She swung her flash to the side, and I saw thin cord tied to cables,
cord that ran to the edge and vanished.
'Kill the o' light!'
She snapped it off.
'How come the one who's goin' you's got no light?'
'Doesn't need it. That one's bad news, Dog. Your men give him a name, they'll come
home in easy-going sections.'
'This a friend, too?' He sounded uneasy. I heard his feet shift on the worn wood.
'No. But he's mine. And this one,' slapping my shoulders, 'he's a friend. Got that?'
'Sure,' he said, without much enthusiasm, nodding to the platform's edge, where the seats
were. He began to play out some kind of message on the taut cord.
it spread beneath us like a toy village for rats; tiny windows showed daylight, with
only a few harsh, bright squares lit by battery lamps and table lamps. I imagined the old
men at their endless games of dice, under warm, fat drops of water that fell from wet
wash hung out on poles between the two branches. Then I tried to imagine him climbing
patiently up through the trees in his torn and gray tourist shirt, slow and wrinkled.
How was he tracking us?
'Good,' said Bond. 'he smells up.'
'Smoke?' Dog dragged a crumpled pack from his pocket and pulled out a flattened cigarette. I
squinted at the trademark while he lit it for me with a kitchen match. Yiheyuan filters. Beijing
Cigarette Factory. I decided that the Loos were black metal. Dog and Molly went
back to their argument, which seemed to develop around Molly's desire to use some
particular piece of Lo Tek real estate.
'I've done you a lot of favors, man. I want that floor. And I want the money.'
'You're not Lo Tek...'
This must have been going on for the better part of a twisted kilometer, Dog leading us along
swaying walls and up rope bridges. The Lore leave their beds and hiding places to
the city's fabric with thick ropes of cloth and sleep above the walls in mesh clouds.
Their country is so rugged that in places it consists of little more than holds and feet,
shaped into wooden sheets.
The Killing Floor, she called it. Calling after her, my new Eddie Bax shoes slipping on
worm metal and damp clothes, I wondered how it could be any more lethal than the rest of
the territory. At the same time I sensed that Dog's protests were true and that she already
expected to get whatever it was she wanted.
Somewhere beneath us, Jones would be circling his body, feeling the first signs of junk
sickness. The police would be boring the Dromeland with questions about Ralfi. What
did he do? Who was he with before he stepped outside? And the sun would be settling its
vast bulk over the city's data banks, looking for faint images of me reflected in numbered
accounts, securities transactions, bills for utilities. We're an information economy. They teach
you that in school. What they don't tell you is that it's impossible to move, to live, to operate at
any level without leaving traces, bits, seemingly endless fragments of personal
information. Fragments that can be retrieved, and...
But by now the pirate would have pulled our message into line for radio transmissions
to the main camp. A simple message: Call off the dogs or we end your program.
The dream. I had no idea what it contained. I still don't. I only sing the song, with zero
conviction. It was probably research data, the name being given to advanced forms of
industrial espionage. A secret business, stealing from Ono-Sendai as a matter of course
and politely holding their data for ransom, threatening to blunt the company's research
edge by making the product public. But why couldn't any number play? Wouldn't they be
happier with something to sell back to Ono-Sendai, happier than they'd be with one dead
Johnny from Memory Lane?
Their plane was on its way to an address in Sydney, to a place that held letters for
clients and didn't ask questions once you'd paid a small fine. Fourth-class surface mail.
I'd erased most of the other copy and recorded our message in the resulting gap, leaving just
enough of the paper to identify it as the real thing.
My wrist hurt. I wanted to stop, to lie down, to sleep. I knew that I'd lose my grip and fall soon,
knew that the sharp black shoes I'd bought for my evening as Eddie Bax would lose their
purchase and carry me down to Nighttown. But he rose in my mind like a cheap religious
photograph, glowing, the enlarged chip in his white shirt looming like a reconnaissance
shot of some doomed urban nucleus.
So I followed Dog and Wolf through Log heaven, jury-picked and ready-built from crap
that even Nighttown didn't want. The Killing Floor was eight meters on a side. A giant had
dragged steel cable back and forth through a tunnel and drawn it all taut. It rocked when
it moved, and it moved constantly, swaying and making the gathering Lo Teks arranged
themselves on the shelf of wood surrounding it. The wood was silver with age, polished
with long use and deeply etched with initials, threats, tears of passion. This was
suspended from a separate set of cables, which last themselves in darkness under the raw
white glare of the two ancient floods suspended above the Floor.
A girl with teeth like Dog's hit the Floor on all four. Her breast were dotted with red
circles. Then she was across the Floor, laughing, talking with a boy who was drinking dark
liquid from a liter glass. Lo Tek also ran to scars and tattoos. And teeth. The electricity they
were tapping to light the Killing Floor seemed to be an exception to their overall aesthetic,
made in the name of... art, sport, art? I didn't know, but I could see that the Floor was
something special. I had the look of having been assembled over generations.
I held the useless shotgun under my jacket. Its hardness and left were comforting, even
thought I had no more shells. And it came to me that I had no idea at all of what was really
happening, or of what was supposed to happen. And that was the nature of my game,
because I'd spent most of my life as a blind reader to be filled with other people;s
knowledge and then drained, using synthetic languages I'd never understand. A very
technical boy. Sure.
And then I noticed just how quiet the Lore had become. He was there, at the edge of the
light, taking in the Killing Floor and the gallery of silent Lo Teks with a tourist's calm. And as
our eyes met for the first time with mutual recognition, a memory clicked into place for me, of
Paris, and the long Mercedes car gliding through the rain to Notre Dame; mobile
houses, human faces behind the glass, and a hundred Nikons rising in blind
phototropism, flowers of steel and steel. Behind his eyes, as they found me, those same
wheels widened.
I looked for Molly Millions, but she was gone. The Loos parted to let him step up on to the
bench. He bowed, smiling, and stepped smoothly out of his shoes, leaving them side by
side, perfectly aligned, and then he stepped down on to the Killing Floor. He came for me,
across that shifting trail of scrap, as easily as any tourist walking across synthetic pile
in any tourist hotel.
They hit the Floor, moving.
The Floor screamed.
It was muted and polished, with speakers riding the four fat coil springs at the corners and
contact wires taped at random to tiny machine fragments. Somewhere the Lo Teks had
an album and a synthesizer, and now I made out of shapes of speakers overhead, above the
cruel white floods.
A beat began, electronic, like an ancient heart, steady as a stone.
She'd removed her leather jacket and boots; her T-shirt was wrinkled, faint traces of
Chiba City lights traced along her thin arms. Her leather jeans steamed under the floods.
She began to dance.
She flexed her knees, white feet tensed on a flattened gas tank, and the Killing Floor began
to shake in response. The sound it made was like a world ending, like the wires that hold
heaven snapping and rolling across the sky.
He rode with it, for a few beats, and then he moved, judging the movement of the Floor
perfectly, like a man stepping from one flat stone to another in an ornamental garden.
He pulled the tip from his mouth with the grace of a man at ease with social gesture and flung
it at her. Under the floods, the lake was a thread of rainbow. She threw herself flat
and rolled, backing up as the molecule whipped past, steel claws snapping into the light in
what must have been an automatic act of defense. The drum pulseped, and she
bounced with it, her dark hair wild around the blank silver lenses, her mouth thin, lips taut
with concentration. The Killing Floor roared and roared, and the Lore were screaming
their excitement.
He attached the blade to a half meter-wide circle of white light and spun it in
front of him, the hand held lever with his thumb. A shield.
And they seemed to let something go, something inside, and that was the real start of her
mad-dog dance. She jumped, twisting, sliding sideways, landing with both feet on an alloy
engine block wired directly to one of the coil springs. I cupped my hands over my ears and
knelt in a void of sound, thinking Floor and benches were on their way down, down to
Nighttown, and I saw us tearing through the water, the wet wash, exploding on the tiles
like rotten fruit. But the cables held, and the Killing Floor rose and fell like a crazy metal sea.
And Molly danced on it.
And at the end, just before he made his final cast with the camera, I saw in his face, an
expression that didn't seem to belong there. It wasn't fear and it wasn't anger. I think it was
disbelief, stunned incomprehension tinged with pure aesthetic curiosity at what he was
seeing, hearing - at what was happening to him. He released the thin blade, the ghost
disk expanding to the size of a dinner plate as he whipped his arm above his head and brought
it down, the tip curving out for me like a live thing.
The Floor carried her down, the molecule passing just above her head; the Floor shifted,
lifting him into the path of the taut molecule. It should have passed directly over his head
and been withdrawn into its final socket. It took his hand off just behind the wrist.
There was a gap in the Floor in front of him, and he went through it like a diver, with a
strange deliberate grace, a defeated man on his way down to Nighttown. Partly, I think,
he took that dive to buy himself a few seconds of the dignity of silence. She'd killed him with
culture shock.
The Loos roared, but someone shut the amplifier off, and Molly rode the Killing Floor into
silence, hanging on now, her face white and blank, until the pitching slower and there was
only a faint noise of tortured metal and the grinding of tires on rock.
We searched the Floor for the severed hand, but we never found it. All we found was a
graceful curve in one piece of curved steel, where the molecule went through. Its edge was
bright as new moon.
We never learned whether the people had a accepted our terms, or ever whether they got
our message. As far as I know, their program is still waiting for Eddie Bax on a shelf in the
back room of a gift shop on the third level of Sydney Central-5. Probably they sold the
original back to Ono-Sendai months ago. But maybe they did get the pirate's broadcast,
because nobody's come looking for me yet, and it's been nearly a year. If they do come,
they'll have a long climb up through the dark, past Dog's house, and I don't look much like
Eddie Bax these days.
I let you take care of that, with a local attorney. And my new teeth have almost grown in.
I decided to stay up here. When I looked out across the Killing Floor, before he came, I saw
how hollow I was. And I knew I was sick of being a bucket. So now I climb down and visit
her, almost every night. We're partners now, Jones and I, and Molly Millions, too. He
handles our business in the Drome. Jones is still in Funland, but he has a bigger tank, with
fresh water pumped in once a week. And he has his junk, when he needs it. He still talks
to the kids with his frame of lights, but he talks to me on a new display unit in a shed that I
rent there, a better unit than the one he used in the navy.
And we're all making good money, better money than I made before, because Joe's mind
can read the traces of anything that anyone ever sees in me, and he gives it to me on the
display unit in languages I can Understand. So we're learning a lot about all my formed
clients. And one day I'll have a surgeon dig all the silicon out of my mind, and I'll live
with my own memories and nobody else's, the way other people do. But not for a while.
In the meantime it's really okay up here, way up in the dark, smoking a single lantern and
listening to the rain that rises from the glass. Real quiet up here - unless a pair
of Lo Teks decide to dance on the Killing Floor.
It's educational, too. With Jones to help me figure things out, I'm getting to be the most
technical boy in town.